well howdy there and I know people it's
Bo again so today we're going to talk
about Trump's signature trade bill the
one he's been touting and talking about
what a success it is going to be and how
it helped Auto Workers okay the name of
the deal is the u.s. MCA that's the
United States Mexico Canada agreement
its NAFTA to Trump's goal for this was
to bring back auto manufacturing jobs to
the United States that's what he wanted
to accomplish with it he set out to do
this with two components in the
agreement the first was that 75% of
parts in cars had to be manufactured in
either the United States Canada or
Mexico
the second was a labor component and it
required that 40 to 45 percent of parts
had to be manufactured by employees who
were making at least 16 dollars an hour
now in Trump's mind this was going to
encourage Japanese auto manufacturers to
move their facilities from Mexico to the
US where 16 bucks an hour
is kind of a normal wage okay and that
makes sense in Trump land okay however
if you're the CEO of a successful
business it wouldn't take you long to
realize that it is cheaper just to pay
your employees in Mexico 16 dollars an
hour than it is to pay to move your
factory and then pay 16 dollars an hour
16 bucks an hour in Mexico gets a really
happy employee
the trade deal went into effect July 1st
that's exactly what's happening
the Honda affiliated company down there
they're just raising wages most of the
component manufacturers down there are
just raising wages Toyota back in
February actually shifted production of
one line of vehicles from Texas to
Mexico now they are investing in some
infrastructure in the US as well okay so
I know it's going to be hard to avoid
mocking Trump or relentlessly for this
because it's his signature trade deal
and it is a failure by the standards he
set for it but in the grand scheme of
things in comparison to Trump's other
foreign policy and trade disasters this
one's not so bad it's got a silver
lining a bunch of workers are going to
get paid well to do their job it's going
to raise the standard of living down
there it's going to help their economy
these are all good things I know people
are going to say that it's gonna raise
the price of cars in the US because of
the added labor expense down there yeah
I mean maybe a little bit but I would
hope that the Mexican government would
help provide some incentive for those
companies to keep their factories down
there
so that might offset it some yeah by his
standards what he wanted to accomplish
with it it's a failure the fact but it's
not necessarily a bad one you know it's
gonna help people and I'm okay I'm okay
with that
now this is the reality of it
Trump is going to get out on the
campaign trail and still talk about this
as if it's a great success just know
that when he says that he helped auto
workers that's a true statement just not
American auto workers anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good night